---
title: "Generative Design"
excerpt: "Utilizing Generative Design to create a spool holder"
header:
image: /assets/img/Converged.png
teaser: /assets/img/Converged.png
gallery:
- url: /assets/img/Preserves-NoSpool.png
  image_path: assets/img/Preserves-NoSpool.png
  alt: "Preserved/obstacle geometries and forces for generation"
- url: /assets/img/Preserves-Spool.png
  image_path: assets/img/Preserves-Spool.png
  alt: "Preserved/obstacle geometries and forces for generation with the spool"
- url: /assets/img/Iterations.png
  image_path: assets/img/Iterations.png
  alt: "Some of the generation outcomes"
- url: /assets/img/Converged.png
  image_path: assets/img/Converged.png
  alt: "Converged design printed"
- url: /assets/img/FinalPictureHolder.png
  image_path: assets/img/FinalPictureHolder.png
  alt: "Final holder printed and mounted to printer"
---
Generative AI is now something that is part of our day-to-day conversation with the rise of popular software like ChatGPT or Google Gemini (of which no part of this post was created using it, pinky promise). However, generative algorithms have been both theorized, created, and implemented into CAD software since the late 1990's. While generative chatbots or image generators are able to create text and images faster than humans could while imitating humans as closely as possible, generative CAD is oftentimes slower, require much more human guidance, and looks drastically different from most traditionally designed parts. 

Where generative design shines is through its ability to easily optimize parts for certain requirements such as forces, creating lightweight, organically shaped parts. The designer can input several factors, such as preserved parts (the shapes that must remain for the generation such as the areas surrounding a hole, structural constraints (the "grounded" section of the design), obstacles (rods, nails, other parts that might intersect with the area and must be designed around), and forces (bearing weights, loads, etc). These parts, however, can be difficult to manufacture, as traditional machining can rarely replicate such organic shapes, but with additive manufacturing, particularly through technology like pSLS where freestanding parts can be created without the need for bulky supports. 

By utilizing this technology, I designed a new spool holder for the Voron 3D printer that allowed for the user to visualize how much of the spool has been finished and when it needs to be replaced. Currently, the spool is in the back, without any way to see the progress of when it is about to run out without being a contortionist or removing the spool to check. 

To make sure that the filament was being led in the right direction, I also wanted to create a leading arm for the guide line of the filament, making sure that it ran through the middle of the spool to avoid tangling. This, therefore, required careful balancing of several different forces and constraints in shape, as it had to attach to the printer through the gap between the frame and had to be tall enough to fit many types of spools but couldn't be too tall. 

## Overall Design
This was the perfect use case for a generative design model. By inputting the different forces that the holder will encounter, applying the correct manufacturing settings, and making sure that all the obstacles and preserved geometries are set, we could quickly create a design that would minimize the amount of powder used for the pSLS process while withstanding the necessary forces. 

### Spool Holder Base
The base of the spool holder had to have a very specific input, leading to the extensive use of both preserved geometries and obstacles to make sure that it would fit correctly in the frame. Additionally, a hole was needed for the M5 bolt used to connect it to the frame of the printer itself. 

### Spool Area
By creating a notch for a few pieces of extra guide line to be added to the area where the spool is held, it can greatly reduce the friction, allowing the spool to spin easier. This could be achieved by preserving the end points of the notches as well as the sides of the notches while allowing the area between it to be generated by the algorithm. 

### Guide Line Holder
This was moreso just an extra part that was preserved with a guideline obstacle to represent the plastic tubing that will be placed inside. The way that it was connected to the rest of the design was up to the generative design algorithm. 

### Load Case 
For the generative design to work, it must first be defined with certain loads and forces to design for as well as a safety factor to abide by. The main force was the weight of the spool on the horizontal beam, amplified by the offset from the center of the holder. Additionally, by having a long offset for the guide line, that force needs to account for the possibility of accidentally dropping it or knocking it over without breaking off. 

### Input for the Generative Design
<iframe src="https://vanderbilt643.autodesk360.com/shares/public/SH286ddQT78850c0d8a4d9689d9cf6045f56?mode=embed" width="640" height="480" allowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true"  frameborder="0"></iframe>

**Forces Table**
| Force Name         | Magnitude                      | Location                                                                  | Rationale                                                                                          |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Gravity            | Automatic                      | Whole Body                                                                | Needed for build to stay together                                                                  |
| Base Force         | 20N Down                       | Spread on both feet of base                                               | Represents the force on the base from the spool's weight.                                          |
| End Force          | 20N off end of rod             | Represents the weight of the spool pushing down when hanging to the side. |
| M5 Hole            | 5N Bearing                     | Inside hole in base                                                       | For the force of screwing the holder in place.                                                     |
| Shear Forwards     | 5N in spool rotating direction | Against rod holding spool                                                 | For the force of the filament being pulled around the spool.                                       |
| Shear Backwards    | 5N in opposite rotation        | Towards the rod holding spool                                             | For the force of the filament rotating the other way                                               |
| Guide Line Down    | 10N Down                       | Against notch holding the guideline                                       | To account for forces applied to it when inserting guideline or bumping during filament insertion. |  |
| Guide Line Bearing | 10N Bearing                    | Inside of guide line hole                                                 | For when the guide line is being inserted.                                                         |

### Final Output of the Generative Design
<iframe src="https://vanderbilt643.autodesk360.com/shares/public/SH286ddQT78850c0d8a460d6f4acf33f5c91?mode=embed" width="640" height="480" allowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true"  frameborder="0"></iframe>

## Testing 
To test the design, we can load and unload several different spools, attaching the guide line, and even printing a small part to make sure it can withstand the forces. 

## Overall Thoughts
While the original design was a little short for most traditional filament spools, the design of the holder allowed for easy adjustment to the height, with a quick regeneration to make the change. Additionally, the cleaning process for pSLS was quite difficult because of the extra bumps and notches from the generative designs, making random bits that I didn't realize needed to be brushed off and other areas I repeatedly tried to brush off but were actually part of the design. Overall, the part was durable and fit well into the frame and the interference fit of the guide line into the holder was also a good fit. 

I think that the generative design approach for this process was an intriguing experiment, but this wasn't a part that was considerably lightweighted from how I would have designed it originally, was harder to clean than a traditionally designed part, and took much longer to design. Furthermore, generative design in the field would cost credits from Fusion to implement, which is infinitly more money than the free-ninety-nine approach of designing it using traditional CAD. It was a fun design, though, and I definitely see the use of using something like this to create cool load bearers for other applications. 

{% include gallery caption="Individual Parts and Real Life Assembly" %}

